BD-2567 Create Heap analytics article (#6448)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/analytics/heap.md

---
nav_title: Heap
article_title: "Heap Analytics"

> description: "This reference article outlines how to use Braze Currents to automatically analyze engagement events with Heap, a digital insights platform, that allows you to import Heap data to Braze, create user cohorts, as well as export Braze data to Heap to create segments."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "This reference article outlines how to use Braze Currents to automatically analyze engagement events with Heap, a digital insights platform, that allows you to import Heap data to Braze, create user cohorts, and export Braze data to Heap to create segments."
```

page_type: partner
search_tag: Partner

---

# Heap analytics

> This article describes how to automatically send engagement events from Braze to Heap for analysis. For more information on integrating Heap and its other functionalities, such as [syncing Heap cohorts]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/cohort_import/heap/#data-import-integration) to Braze, see the main [Heap article]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/cohort_import/heap/).

## Data export integration

Use Braze Currents to automatically send engagement events (for example, email sent, push sent) from Braze to Heap for analysis.

### Step 1: Get Heap credentials

You’ll need a webhook endpoint URL to configure this integration, which you can get from your Heap account manager.

> ### Step 2: Configure Braze Currents

Reviewer 2: @rachel-feinberg so sorry to not flag this earlier! Heap uses Braze's Custom HTTP Connector (here are their docs detailing it: https://help.heap.io/integrations/marketing-automation/braze-integration/) currently this Connecter is still in EA according to the PM so we will want to call out that the customer will need to have this feature flipped in order to use this.

> In Braze, navigate to **Partner Integrations** > **Data Export** and click **Create New Current** and select **Heap Export**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Braze, navigate to **Partner Integrations** > **Data Export**, click **Create New Current**, and select **Heap Export**. 
```

{% alert note %}
If you are using the [older navigation]({{site.baseurl}}/navigation), you can find **Currents** under **Integrations**.
{% endalert %}

> Give your export a name, and then proceed to the **Current Details** page. On this page, you'll need to enter the endpoint and optional bearer token (if provided).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give your export a name, then proceed to the **Current Details** page. On this page, enter the endpoint and optional bearer token (if provided).
```

Use Braze Currents to automatically send engagement events (for example, email sent, push sent) from Braze to Heap for analysis.

> {% alert note %}

Reviewer 2: Huge apology - Product noted that this note will not be needed b/c the Heap Export UI is in GA. So sorry!!
